Such-Skirt2637: Okay so like how do freshman dorm assignments work? I filled out the housing app so everything is all ready (and i know my roommate is random). Do i get my roommate and dorm at once? Or do I get to pick which dorm building I want?

- Jsnake47: It’s all random. You’ll know your roommate and dorm at the same time

  - Such-Skirt2637: thanks! which dorms are the ones freshmen are in? which would u say is the “best” and the “worst”?

    - Jsnake47: Freshmen are in Massell Quad and North Quad. The biggest thing to avoid is getting a forced triple—most of which are in Shapiro—or just the Shapiro basement at all. Besides that, Massell is much closer to a dining hall and the sciences whereas North is at the top of campus and is close to the humanities classes. Massell has tile floors in the rooms and is older as a building. While there are smaller common areas and communal kitchens in each building, the main common space is the Shapiro lounge, which also has a kitchen as well. North has carpeted floors and bigger common areas per building, which comes at the cost of each floor not always having a smaller one on the floor. The main kitchen area for the quad is in Polaris, a big common area that connects Scheffres and Gordon. North also has the gender neutral housing in Cable and Reitman, so if you opted for the potential to have a gender neutral room it’s likely that you’ll be there. Overall, there isn’t that much of a difference, it mostly comes down to what is more convenient for your classes and where your friends end up hanging out
    
- glitterxtimes: former freshman/rising sophomore here!!! i lived in renfield hall, which is in massell. north is the better quad all around, but my personal ranking would be reitman and cable (north), renfield, shapiro (both in massell), gordon and scheffres (north) and then deroy and usen (massell). i did have carpet in renfield, and we got bigger desks than everyone else i know on campus. my room in renfield was a great size, as are most north rooms. shapiro has good sized rooms, deroy and usen tho...not so much. deroy (and usen i think) both have tile. north is more convenient for everything upper campus, especially the humanities buildings and usdan student center, but massell is closer to the main dining hall, science buildings, shapiro campus center, and the fine arts buildings. i would personally hope to be not on the third floor though! no elevators, not the best to come back from a day of classes and have to climb all that. the perk is that you don't have to worry about upstairs neighbors, though. if you have more questions feel free to dm me!