Away_Mycologist8366: Can anyone give any feedback on first year dorms at Brandeis/specific feedback on different Quads? Also is it true that Brandeis will not let you choose a roommate your first year?

- ItsMrShroom: yes. The only thing you can choose is ur preference for a single, double, triple, and what type of floor (male, female, co-ed, or gender inclusive). There are really no “bad” dorms on campus, there’s good ones, great ones, and okay ones. I lived in north quad this year, and besides the 12ish minute walk to lower campus for my arts classes I have no real complaints. Massell is “fine” from what I’ve heard, but I didn’t live there, so

- Separate_Office_7696: I live in Massel this year and it was nice. You have a pond in the quad and it’s right next to Sherman Dining Hall, the only dining halls that’s open over the weekends and breaks. A bit annoying if you are taking humanities classes as you need to walk all the way up hill

- Mundane_Talk_1501: I’m currently in Massell and genuinely I think that it is not that bad, the buildings compared to North Quad is a bit older while North is more new. I like it since it near Sherman dining hall, but hate it that I have to go up the hill every morning other than that it’s actually fine. I live in Shapiro, and my floor is separate to two sides and each has different genders. There is laundry in the basement, I think it is big there are about 8-10 washers and 6 dryers which is not bad imo. And yes roommate is random you can’t choose :( sadly